chapter number four this evening.
Be looking at verses eight through 15.
Genesis chapter number four, verses eight through 15.
I'll give you just a moment to get there.
Genesis chapter four,
beginning in verse number eight this evening.
And you'll recall from our last study
in the book of Genesis,
as we studied the first seven verses of Genesis four,
not last Sunday evening,
we had a missionary and the Bower family,
Brother Bower was with us, missionary to Australia.
And what a joy it was to visit with him
and hear what God is doing in that part of the world.
But two weeks ago on Sunday evening,
we dealt with Genesis four, one through seven.
As we looked at that passage of scripture,
we were reminded, we remember that Cain and Abel,
both of them brought an offering to the Lord.
You'll remember that God had respect unto Abel's offering,
but it was Cain's offering that was rejected.
And we understand as we look at the passage of scripture,
the Bible tells us that Cain was very wroth
and his countenance fell.
According to verse number five of the text of scripture,
it says at the end of the verse,
and Cain was very wroth and his countenance fell.
The Lord spoke to Cain.
Aren't you thankful for that?
The pursuit of God.
I mentioned that, I'm not gonna preach the message again.
You remember that in verse number six,
it says the Lord said unto Cain,
and God approached him, God pursued him,
and God spoke to Cain
as it's recorded in our text of scripture.
But it seems as if, as we look at verse number seven,
and God is speaking to Cain there
with regard to the offering
and bringing the appropriate offering.
Remember that the receiving of one offering
and the rejecting of the other offering
did not have to do with the man,
it had to do with the offering.
It had to do with the blood.
And we understand that throughout the word of God,
the substitutionary atonement.
In fact, at the end of chapter number three,
when we dealt with that message several weeks ago
about the fact that the Lord God
made coats of skins for Adam and Eve to cover them
and it required the shedding of blood,
what a great picture of the substitutionary atonement
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
It's sad as we look at the text of scripture
in this evening as we begin in verse number eight
down through verse number 15,
that it would really seem as if Cain
heard what God said to him,
but it appears from the text of scripture
that Cain simply ignored the instruction
and followed his own way.
I mean, notice in verse seven it says,
if thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted.
And if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door.
And unto thee shall be his desire
and thou shalt rule over him.
And the very next thing that we read,
verse eight, Cain talked with Abel his brother.
It seems as if he heard what God said
with regard to the offering
and he just simply rejected that instruction.
He ignored what he heard.
What a shame it is when light is resisted.
When light is rejected.
I'm so thankful that our God
so graciously gives us light from His Word
and reveals truth to us.
But how important it is that we respond to that truth.
Respond to that light,
that we walk in obedience.
Tony prayed tonight.
You often hear me pray this way as well.
Lord, help us to be doers of the Word
and not hearers only.
And that's so important.
And we find here that the text of Scriptures,
we'll pick it up this evening,
that this man, Cain,
he just simply resisted and ignored
that which he'd been given.
And the sad reality this evening
is that there are still far too many
in the world today that would follow
as we read in the book of Jude,
they would follow the way of Cain.
They would resist the revealed Word of God
as God would give the truth
with regard to salvation and sanctification
and so on and so forth.
And we find that in the little book of Jude
right before the revelation,
that in v. 11, it says,
Woe unto them,
for they have gone in the way of Cain
and ran greedily after the heir of Balaam
for reward and are perished
and they gain saying of Korah.
We see that still today,
there are many that go in the way of Cain.
They reject revealed truth.
We find here the Bible says in v. 8,
that when Cain talked with Abel his brother,
and it came to pass,
when they were in the field,
that Cain rose up against Abel his brother
and slew him.
The Lord said unto Cain,
Where is Abel thy brother?
And he said, I know not.
Am I my brother's keeper?
And he said, God said,
What hast thou done?
The voice of thy brother's blood
crieth unto me from the ground.
Now art thou cursed from the earth,
which hath opened her mouth
to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand.
When thou tillest the ground,
it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength.
A fugitive and a vagabond
shalt thou be in the earth.
Notice the response of Cain in v. 13 and 14.
It says this,
Cain said unto the Lord,
My punishment is greater than I can bear.
How many people don't think of the consequences
of their decisions?
Amen?
Decisions have consequences.
And he says,
My punishment is greater than I can bear.
Behold, v. 14,
Thou hast driven me out this day
from the face of the earth,
and from thy face shall I be hid.
And I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth,
and it shall come to pass
that everyone that findeth me shall slay me.
The Lord said unto him,
Therefore whoso slayeth Cain,
vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold.
The Lord set a mark upon Cain,
lest any man finding him should kill him.
You notice in the bulletin,
the title for the message is very simply this,
Cain slew Abel.
Notice the crime with me
as it's recorded in v. 8.
If you're taking notes first,
notice the crime.
We notice that Cain's anger is directed toward Abel.
We see this same response very often
in life today where someone is dealing with anger
and it's directed in the wrong place,
the wrong people, and so on and so forth.
The reality is that there was nothing that Abel did
that caused these circumstances to transpire.
Abel simply walked with God.
Abel simply followed that which God had instructed.
We find that in the book of Hebrews
in the 11th chapter that the Bible tells us
that Abel offered a more excellent sacrifice,
but it says by faith he offered
a more excellent sacrifice.
And the reality is that Abel did nothing wrong,
but because Abel was accepted,
because his offering was respected and accepted by God,
Cain directed his anger toward Abel.
And in directing his anger toward Abel,
we find that he's going to go down a path
of unfortunate decisions.
And it's a sad reality
because really what Cain should have done
is when God came to him in verse number seven,
what a joyous thing it would be
if we read in the text of Scripture
that Cain heard the word of God
and he responded with a level of repentance and obedience
and he made a proper offering.
Wouldn't that be excellent?
We find that instead he ignores that which is given by God
and we find that he takes the opportunity
as he's there with Abel.
Notice it says that Cain talked with Abel,
his brother.
It came to pass when they were in the field,
I believe that Cain as he's speaking with his brother
that for whatever reason,
this anger that's brewed in him
and this anger about the situation and the circumstances,
he just wants to kill his brother.
Can I tell you this evening
that the act of murder here,
this crime as it's recorded,
it says Cain rose up against Abel, his brother,
and slew him.
This accomplishes nothing, right?
It didn't take care of Cain's problems.
In fact, it gave him more problems, right?
His problems are not resolved by killing Abel.
His problems are not resolved
by getting rid of the one whose offering was accepted.
Rather, it just simply caused him to have greater problems
and we find here in the text of Scripture
that these problems are far greater
that he's going to deal with
as far as the judgment of God and so on and so forth
and this did not fix anything.
By the way, when we're angry,
if we're not careful,
remember the Bible says there in Ephesians 4
as we studied several weeks ago now
that we're to be angry and sin not.
Amen?
And here we find that this anger led to a terrible crime
in which brother slew brother.
Cain killed Abel.
In 1 John 3, notice over there in the text of Scripture,
there's something that's interesting that God gives us
over in the book of 1 John.
All the way back in the New Testament,
look at 1 John 3.
I want you to notice what is said here
in the text of Scripture.
It's very interesting because it's in the text of Scripture
where once again, the apostle John
is speaking about the importance of loving the brethren.
We find throughout the New Testament,
in fact, Jesus in John 13
gave that instruction that you're to love one another.
And He said this,
as I have loved thee.
It was a new commandment.
It was not love your neighbor as yourself.
It was love them as I loved you.
We find that He said by this
shall all men know that you're My disciples.
By the love that you have one for another.
And we find that John continues this thought
throughout the book of 1 John
and he mentions on several occasions
about the responsibility of God's people
to love one another.
In verse 11, in fact, in 1 John 3, in verse 11.
for this is the message that you've heard from the beginning,
that we should love one another.
Notice this, not as Cain,
who was of that wicked one and slew his brother.
And wherefore slew he him?
Because his own works were evil,
and his brother's righteous."
Isn't that insightful?
As you read that verse of Scripture in 1 John 3 and verse number 12,
and you find the anger and the indignation of Cain
who rejected the way of God
toward his brother Abel who was righteous,
who had gone the proper way.
Notice what the text of Scripture teaches us in verse number 13.
Marvel not, my brethren, notice this,
if the world hate you.
You know, just because we walk with God
doesn't mean everyone's going to like us.
In fact, the closer we walk with God
and the more stand we take for the Lord Jesus Christ,
the more the world's going to hate us.
Amen?
And we find that Jesus had given that truth.
In fact, it says in John 15,
if you turn back to the Gospel of John
and look in John 15,
I want you to notice the instruction that Jesus provides
to His disciples before He would go to the cross of Calvary.
And as He's going through the wonderful promises
and He's really preparing them.
By the way, I'm thankful for how God prepares us in His Word.
I'm thankful for how God in all of His wisdom
and because He is eternal and He's omniscient,
He's able to provide the instruction that they would need
for what they would deal with,
that which they would endure.
We find that in John 15 and verse number 18,
the Bible says this,
if the world hates you,
you know that it hated me before it hated you.
If ye were of the world, the world would love his own.
But because you're not of the world,
but I have chosen you out of the world,
therefore the world hateth you.
Verse 20, remember the word that I said unto you,
the servant is not greater than his Lord.
If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you.
If they have kept my saying,
they will keep yours also.
Say, pastor, I came here to get encouraged tonight.
The reality is that God is preparing His servants.
Can I tell you when you go to the book of Acts
and you read the Acts of the apostles,
the Holy Spirit of God using the disciples,
the followers of Christ in the first century,
when you read the book of Acts,
you see a group of people that endure great hardship.
They'd been prepared by the Lord.
They were prepared for that which they would endure.
And we find that the example is given
here in the New Testament with regard to the event
that we're studying this evening from Genesis 4.
Turn back there if you will.
And we find the crime as it's noted
where Cain kills his brother.
His anger is directed towards Abel.
And the reality is that the world's gonna hate us
and that's the illustration that John uses in 1 John 3.
He goes all the way back to the very beginning
of human history and he deals with this interaction
between Cain and Abel,
and he sets it as a point of understanding
this hatred that the world would have for the righteous.
We notice the crime.
I want you to notice as we look in the text description,
we move forward in verses nine and 10,
not only the crime, but notice again the confrontation.
Abel is now dead according to verse number eight.
He's been killed by his brother.
We find that once again as we would consider
even as we've looked in chapter three
and in chapter four up to this point in our study,
we have found that each time that there's some offense
that takes place, that God is the one pursuing.
That it's God that's making that first step,
that first move if you will.
It was in Genesis 3 after Adam and Eve took,
they partook of that fruit that was forbidden,
we find that it was God that was pursuing them.
We mentioned that, we talked about that.
We found here in Genesis 4, one through seven
that after the offering was rejected,
it was God that came to Cain.
Now, after this terrible crime,
this act of murder against his own brother,
it's the Lord that comes and speaks to Cain.
This evening, the New Testament tells us
that Jesus came to seek and save, amen?
He's the seeking Savior.
Notice in verse nine, the Lord said unto Cain,
God comes to where he is.
God speaks to Cain.
And notice the question that is asked in verse number nine
and there's another question that is asked
in verse number 10.
And God very plainly says this in verse number nine,
where is Abel thy brother?
Where is Abel thy brother?
They're probing questions, aren't they?
You find how that God is seeking
to get to the heart of Cain.
Remember, it was in Genesis chapter number three
as we looked at that text of Scripture
when Adam and Eve were hiding
amongst the trees of the garden
and God comes in during the cool of the day
and God says, where art thou?
God knew exactly where they were.
He's pursuing them.
These probing questions.
He asked them, Adam and Eve in chapter number three,
after he asked where they were
and they come and they have dialogue,
he says this, hast thou eaten of the tree?
Where have I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?
In verse number 11 of chapter three.
Again, God already knew that they did.
He's asking those questions, probing, convicting.
Here in Genesis chapter number four,
God says as he meets with Cain,
where is Abel thy brother?
Where's Abel?
Now, the reality is that Cain knew exactly where Abel was.
Right?
Cain knew where he was.
Cain killed him.
But notice in the text of Scripture,
the wickedness of his heart, the arrogance of his nature,
it was on full display as Cain stood
before the face of the Almighty God and lied.
I know not.
Am I my brother's keeper?
Can you imagine?
Can you imagine standing before the Lord God,
the creator and God comes and he says,
where is Abel thy brother?
I have no idea.
What do you think, I'm his keeper?
Am I responsible for his whereabouts?
Can you imagine?
See, God is probing.
God is seeking to reach the heart of this man, Cain.
But Cain and his arrogance, his pride, his wickedness,
he stands before God and he just boldly lies.
I don't know.
Notice in verse 10, as God continues
to have this conversation,
the confrontation continues between the Lord God and Cain.
In verse 10, he, God says, what hast thou done?
Can you imagine?
What'd you do, Cain?
Now again, did God know?
Sure he did.
God knew all about it.
But God's seeking again to reach the heart of this man.
What hast thou done?
Notice what God says, the voice of thy brother's blood
the voice of thy brother's blood
crieth unto me from the ground.
Now put yourself there just for a moment.
I mean, look in the beginning of human history
and we find that we're not far into the creation.
Remember that we've identified that at the end
of the chapter, the fourth chapter,
that Adam's around 130 years old
and the text of scripture tells us that.
So we're not real far into creation
and the human history of the world.
We know that they're adults.
The Bible tells us that they, as they were working
and their responsibilities in verse number two, et cetera.
But we find here that God says, what hast thou done?
And then says to Cain, the voice of thy brother's blood
crieth unto me from the ground.
See, God makes it abundantly clear to Cain
that he, God, knew exactly what Cain did.
Amen?
He lets him know.
Notice, the voice of thy brother's blood
crieth unto me from the ground.
I believe that Cain thought that he had
the perfect opportunity in verse number eight
as he's talking to his brother
and as they're there in the field
and perhaps there's no one else around.
He thinks this is the opportunity.
This is the time.
Do you remember when Moses slew the Egyptian?
Remember when he watched the Egyptian
that was having some difficulty there
with one of his brethren
and we find that Moses observed that
and then Moses goes and he kills that man, remember?
And then all of a sudden when Moses found out
that they knew because Moses comes to the children of Israel
and talks about deliverance and says,
that's when it's revealed that there were some
that observed that act of murder.
And here, Cain, I don't know, I mean,
as he's standing there and he's trying to act innocent
and say, I don't know, what are you talking about?
Am I his key?
and we find that God says the voice of my brother's blood crieth unto me from
the ground see this evening this simple text of scripture is given to us as a
historical record we also know that there's divine truth that's provided to
us for application purposes you know God knows every part of us he knows
everything that we do I spoke this morning about being filled with the
spirit of God in those secret places the things that we do when we think no
one else is around the things that we do the thoughts that we have see God knows
our thoughts right I am mindful of going through the book of or the gospel record
and reading the the truth of when Jesus is there and he's ministering and
they're reasoning amongst themselves but he knows their thoughts he knows
everything about us and the reality is that when we're confronted by God with
the truth from his word whether it's through the preaching of his word in a
public service such as this or whether it's in our personal devotions whether
we're listening to a message on the on the on the phone or in the the car
wherever it might be when God pricks us when he's dealing with us he knows
exactly what's going on and we can stand there like Cain and say I don't
know what are you talking about would it not be far better for us to just simply
confess and forsake the pursuit of God see that he that covereth his sin shall
not prosper that's Bible truth amen we can try to cover it we can try to
pretend that it's not there we can try to pretend well we can excuse we get
pretty good at excusing things don't we honestly we get pretty good at
rationalizing and excusing our behavior but the reality is that we stand before
a holy God and he told us that we're to walk in holiness that were to be holy
because he is holy it's amazing we can take and look at the example of Cain and
I hope that we'd learn from it that we would not respond in such manner as Cain
and say I don't know no we do know we know what we do we know we think when
the Holy Spirit of God touches pinpoint something in our lives oh how we ought
to just run to Jesus amen call it what it is I mean forgive me he says if we
confess our sin see that word confess is an interesting term it doesn't mean
that we sit there and we beg for forgiveness we beat ourselves and no no
it's we say the same thing it's sin it's wicked it's ungodly forgive me
forgiven we have the promise if we confess our sins he is faithful and just
to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness isn't that
precious oh that Cain would have responded with a repentant heart and
and allowed the probing of God to impact and influence and we see the crime we
see the confrontation I want you to notice the consequences it's amazing to
me that even as we look here in the text of Scripture that as we read the
consequences that there still is no repentance we see the hardness of the
heart as we look at this passage and we read about the consequences we're
reminded that the righteous judge executes judgment the Lord God is the
righteous judge amen and here the Bible tells us in verse number 11 notice what
he says now and now art thou cursed from the earth Wow this is strong language
see God never told Adam and Eve that they were cursed there was consequences
that were given there's a different response I believe we find here that
this and in the situation with Cain it says thou art cursed from the earth
which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand again
he's letting him know that he knew exactly was what happened remember in
verse number 10 he says the voice of my brother's blood crieth unto me from the
ground but he makes it abundantly clear in verse number 11 when he says this
the earth which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood notice these
words from thy hand Cain I know what you did I know exactly what you did it says
in verse 12 when thou tillest the ground it shall not henceforth yield unto her
unto thee her strength notice that's the first aspect of this consequence of the
the crime the act that was committed in verse number 8 we find that the ground
would not yield unto thee her strength now notice that with me just for a
moment as we consider the consequences of of this wicked crime I want you to
consider with me that that was exactly where Cain took his pride right think
about this when Cain brought the offering if you look back in verse
number 3 it says in process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the
fruit of the ground and offering unto the Lord and he was a man that the Bible
tells us in verse number 2 that he was a tiller of the ground so took pride in
I mentioned as I preach verse 1 through 7 of chapter 4 that I believe that the
offering that Cain brought to the Lord was probably a very beautiful offering
it's probably the very best of what he had I don't think that he brought
something just small and insignificant in the the the terrible fruit that would
you know I believe that he brought something good was missing blood was the
wrong thing God had no respect for that offering but he told him the way that
he should go and now I want you to consider with me that as we look at the
consequence that it's the very thing that Cain took pride in the works of his
own hands as he thought the Bible says that it the ground it shall not hence
forth yield unto thee her strength notice Cain thought these were the works
of his hands we know what he'd find out that without the blessing of God the
ground wasn't gonna produce anything for him amen we sometimes think oh look at
what I did oh hold on without the blessing of God it's all for not listen
the air that we're breathing right now is God's air amen the earth that we're
standing on right now is God's earth he is the creator he's the owner amen and
so we we look at this and in here the very thing think about the way in which
God I mean just the righteous judgment the wisdom of God I believe is on
display here for he's letting Cain understand this valuable truth that
without me that ground isn't gonna produce anything for you it's God that
gives the increase amen it's God listen the nation of Israel would learn through
many many difficult times during their history they would learn how that God
would withhold the rain and guess what the crops you read various passages of
scripture you read of notable miracles that take place and as you read through
these texts of scripture and you see what's taking place it's amazing as you
would be mindful of the way in which God has to do his work we look in various
portions of scripture and we're reminded of the way in which God would make it
abundantly clear even to his people um as you as you would think about the oh
we're gonna do this and we're gonna do that yeah but if I don't send the rain
it's not nothing's gonna happen it's God that's in control of that no mother
nature weather and pat weather pattern God's in control of all that amen we
find here that God's getting right to the heart of the matter he says in verse
number 12 the second aspect of the consequence of this crime says Cain said
unto excuse me the end of verse number 12 a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou
be in the earth the idea of these words it has the idea of on being unstable
fleeing no settled habitation but in a negative connotation it's a negative
aspect that is given here when he says that you'd be a fugitive and a vagabond
we think of a fugitive one that's on the run right one that's cannot have rest
and the the picture the imagery that we find in these words that he'd be a
fugitive and a vagabond in the earth and we would think about the fact that he
could settle in no place for any length of time and in all of these things and
I'm mindful of what the Bible tells us over the book of Hebrews turn over there
quickly in Hebrews chapter 11 a wonderful truth that God gives us in
this passage of Scripture see here we find that the judgment that would come
upon this one Cain the consequence not only would it be that the the ground
would yield not her strength to him but we find that he'd be a fugitive and a
vagabond over in Hebrews chapter 11 the passage of Scripture that we've often
referred to as the Hall of Faith chapter the one in which I mentioned earlier
where the Bible tells us in verse number four that by faith Abel offered unto God
a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. And we read about all the faith, but I want
you to notice that in verse number 13, read verse 12 with me, it says this,
therefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead, so many as the stars
of the sky in multitude, as the sand which is by the seashore innumerable.
Speaking about the blessings there, the promise with Abraham and what have you,
but notice in verse number 13 it says this, these all died in faith. Notice, not
having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded
of them, and embraced them. Now I want you to pause just for a moment. The message is on
promises tonight, but can I tell you that every promise of God and him is yea?
Amen? And these promises that they had received, the Bible says that they
received them, but the Bible says that they're persuaded of them, and they
embraced them. Amen? We might not see it come to pass in our day, but it
nevertheless is true. Abraham never got to the land as it had been promised, and
the way in which it had been promised, but notice here, it says this, and confess,
notice, that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. The judgment, the
consequence for Cain was that he'd be a fugitive and a vagabond. Always on the
run, unstable, fleeing, no settled habitation for him, but you contrast that
with those that are living by faith here in Hebrews 11 and verse 13. It says that
they confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. Why? Because
we're looking for a better country. Amen? This, we sing, this world is not my home,
I'm just a passing through. My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue,
notice in verse 16, but now they desire a better country that is in heavenly,
wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for
them a city. Oh, that's exciting. Remember what Jesus said in John 14? Let not your
heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house
are many mansions, if it were not so I would have told you. I go to prepare a
place for you. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and
receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. What a joyful truth.
See, we're pilgrims and strangers on this earth, but not because of a wicked
consequence for our sin, because we have a better country, a heavenly. Isn't that
awesome? The consequence here for Cain, the ground's not gonna produce fruit.
Cain, you're gonna be a fugitive, a vagabond on the earth. Don't you notice
the response of Cain? By the way, sin always brings trouble, doesn't it? The way
the transgressor? The Bible says it's hard in Proverbs 13 and verse number 15. In verse
number 13, Cain said unto the Lord, my punishment is greater than I can bear.
He kind of rehearses the punishment. Behold, thou hast driven me out this day
from the face of the earth, and from thy face shall I be hid. I shall be a fugitive
and a vagabond on the earth. He says the consequence is greater, the
punishment is greater than I can bear. He begins to respond to that judgment of
God with complaint and saying that it's too hard, but yet we still see that
there's no repentance. There's no sorrow. There's just complaint for the
consequence. How many people get frustrated with the consequences of
their decisions? How important it is that we would consider before we ever make a
decision that there will be consequences. By the way, that's an automatic process.
You start making decisions, consequences just come naturally. It's just the way it
works. That's how God designed it. But notice the end of verse number 14, it
shall come to pass that everyone that findeth me shall slay me. So we find that
this one Cain, he was really only concerned about the temporal. His only
only concern about the physical, right? He couldn't sing the song that we sang
about face-to-face, I shall see him. He didn't have all those promises. He had
rejected God's way, and all he had was the temporal. All he had was the physical.
He says, this is too much for me to bear, and furthermore, everyone that finds me
is gonna want to kill me. By the way, implied here in the text of Scripture is
a growing population upon the earth. Adam and Eve had many children, not just Cain
and Abel. The text of Scripture traces the steps of, or for us, the record
here of Cain and Abel, but no doubt all those that he would find, they would be
descendants of Adam and Eve, right? So they know what's happened, they hear
what's going on, and he's fearful for his own life. He's thinking temporally, he's
thinking physically, and he says, I'm afraid of this. This is what's gonna
happen, this is too much for me. The Lord said unto him, verse 15, therefore whoso
slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. The Lord set a mark upon
Cain, lest any may finding him should kill him. A lot of debate that's been
taken into account with the end of verse number 15 with regard to this mark that
was set upon Cain. Really the idea in the Hebrew, in the original, is not that
he put a mark necessarily on him physically, but he gave him a sign with
regard to this truth that he gave him about the vengeance that would be taken
on anyone that would do harm to him. And we find in the text of Scripture, oh
there's a crime, there's a confrontation, and there are consequences. You know, when
we violate the law of God, when we violate a holy God, I'm thankful that He
confronts us. Just make it real applicable for us tonight. I hope none
amongst us have killed anybody, amen? But the New Testament says if we hate our
brother, right? You look in the Word of God and you understand that there are
times that we violate the Scriptures, we violate God's holy commands, and I'm
thankful for the conviction of the Holy Spirit. I'm thankful for that
confrontation where God comes and He convicts us. We talk about
conviction sometimes like He steps on our toes. You ever have that happen where
God just kind of climbs up in your lap and just begins to convict us. It's good.
Conviction is a good thing, amen? If you're beyond being convicted, you're in
more trouble than you think you are, amen? If you are beyond conviction, you're in
more trouble than you think you are. You know why? You have a seared conscience,
and that is a dangerous, dangerous thing. And it happens when we grieve the Holy
Spirit of God, we quench the Holy Spirit of God, we no longer listen to His voice
like we once did. We excuse our behavior, excuse our sin, we explain it away, we
rationalize things, and then there are consequences. And he that covereth his
sins shall not prosper. And instead of finding the grace and the mercy and
having that forgiveness that He promises, we just go through life being defeated
and being in a position of having no fellowship with God. Think about this, in
1 John chapter 1, the Bible talks about having fellowship with God. I'm
thankful for fellowship with God, but you know that your sin and my sin hinders my
fellowship with God. I'm thankful that my sin does not make me not His child
anymore, amen? I've been born again, I've been born in the family of God.
Relationship was settled at Calvary, but fellowship is a whole other situation.
And what a joy to know this evening that God would confront us, that God would
convict us, that He would pursue us, and oh, that we'd respond, not like Cain. We'd
respond in humility, with brokenness. Think about David. You read over in Psalm 51,
we don't have time to go there this evening. You read the text of Scripture and you read
in the account in 2 Samuel when Nathan stood before Him and said, Thou art the
man. You see the confession, you see the brokenness. He's broken and contrite, and
you see the forgiveness. What a joy. This evening, as we read the account, yes, we
see the history. We understand the first murder that's recorded here, the
Word of God, how sad it is. But this evening, we need to be careful that we violate the
Word of God, we violate His holy commands, that He will confront us. Oh, that we'd
respond. Respond with repentance, amen? Let's pray. Father, we love you. Thank you for
letting us be part of your ministry.